...........About CounterPoint...........

I am primarily for musical and/or software people. Everyone else is entering a world of pain. 

I am an algorithm that generates musical melodies as usable MIDI files. Please focus on how I use Object Oriented 
Programming to model musical concepts.



..............Usage..............

I have no front end yet so one must run the counterpoint DRIVER from an IDE (like eclipse), at whence the folder Counterpoint\MidiFiles will 
populate with playable midi file(s). Play the midi files with your computer's default midi. 

Each MIDI file will have many variations of melodies based upon a single Cantus Firmus (primary melody). It will sound 
repetitive because of my recursive algorithm, but each bar is slightly different.

Windows: Should be able to play a MIDI file. 
Mac: May have to open garageband and drag the MIDI file to a MIDI track to hear it (itunes apparently cannot handle it)



..........Fuxian Counterpoint.........
Traditional Fuxian Counterpoint has a very discrete set of melodic rules and is the perfect pilot to
build the framework around. It has the quintessential Baroque classical music sound and is presently my only 
functional melodic rule system. 

Note that you can set the Gregorian Mode in the driver. 



..........Vernacular........

Cantus Firmus: Single note melody line following particular fuxian counterpoint rules

First Species: The First added melody to a Cantus Firmus, thus, it is technically the second melody, and also follows fuxian 
counterpoint

Zenith: the highest note of the melody, which can only occur once, and abolishes the need of a Nadir

Nadir: The lowest note of the melody, which can only occur once, and abolishes the need for a Zenith

Pentultimate Note: The second to last note in the melody. Since there are strict rules on what notes bring closure to a 
melody, there are also strict rules on how that final note can be approached from the second to last note. 

Leap: When a melody "leaps" over other notes in the scale to reach the next note, as oppose to stepwise motion

